<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X: A Midnight Visitor</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Midnight Visitor</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>I slipped unobserved into the diet kitchen, where I left my cape and to some degree repaired damages. I found, on emerging from the kitchen, that the new patient in Eighteen had arrived. It is a rule with me personally to superintend the installation of a new patient, so I went at once to Room 18. I still found it unpleasant to enter that room, especially since the figure on the narrow bed reminded me forcibly of that other figure that had lain there.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin was an elderly man, somewhat peevish at being thrust into bed, and quite to my liking. He must have been a person of some importance, for flowers galore had already arrived, among them a potted lobelia, a sinister-looking flower that I have never liked.</p>
			<p>He replied rather bitterly that he was as comfortable as might be expected and asked for the evening papers.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” I said, “but we don’t have them.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t have them!” he exclaimed, eyeing me shrewdly. “Oh. Oh, yes, I see why. Where did all this trouble occur, anyway? And see here, what’s the matter with this radio? The thing don’t work. Is it turned on at this hour? I want the stock reports. I want to tune in myself.”</p>
			<p>“The radio is in the general office,” I explained hastily, fearing he would return to the question I did not wish to answer. “The speakers in the different rooms connect with it. It is usually turned on at this hour, but I don’t know whether they have got the stock reports or not.”</p>
			<p>“Well, bring me a speaker that works, anyhow,” he said, hitching himself on one elbow among the pillows and then flopping back again. “Anything for amusement. I suppose it will be bedtime stories. Well, bring ’em on. And you might slip me a cigar.”</p>
			<p>I felt rather sad as I took the loud speaker, pulled the plug from its connection above the bed, and started away. It doesn’t take five minutes to place a new patient in his correct category and I knew all too well where this one belonged. Someone had labelled them “crippled captains of finance,” and the title stuck.</p>
			<p>Being in a hurry I took the faulty speaker into Sonny’s room. He was engrossed with a new block puzzle and paying no attention to the radio so I exchanged the speakers, taking the one in Sonny’s room to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin for the time being. Once connected, soft and dulcet tones rang through Number 18: “… and then Bunny Brown Eyes⁠—scampered along⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Oh, hell,” remarked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin.</p>
			<p>“The dinner concert comes on at seven,” I suggested.</p>
			<p>“Think I can stand this till then?” he asked, but left the plug in. “Can you bring me a⁠—er⁠—blanket or two, nurse? Somehow this room seems sort of⁠—I don’t know⁠—cold, I guess. You might turn on that light up there⁠—yes, and the one over the dresser, too.”</p>
			<p>The light over the bed was already glowing, but I did as he asked. Which only goes to prove that Room 18 was already getting in its work. I left the door open and remember that I spoke very earnestly when I told him to turn on the signal light if he wanted anything.</p>
			<p>He did not have to listen to the bunny story after all, however, for I met Miss Jones coming along with a truck and she told me that she was taking <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s⁠—that is, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman’s office for an examination.</p>
			<p>“He hasn’t had his supper tray yet, has he?” she asked anxiously.</p>
			<p>Meeting O’Leary in the hall I told him that Room 18 was vacant for a few minutes; I went on downstairs to eat, however, and did not accompany him. But when I sat down to glance at the charts of the south wing an hour later, O’Leary stopped beside me.</p>
			<p>“No luck?” I said.</p>
			<p>“Not a thing,” he replied.</p>
			<p>There was a distinctly puzzled look in his face.</p>
			<p>“Keep your eyes open tonight, Miss Keate. If anything occurs like last night, phone to me immediately. Here’s my number. I’ll sleep right by the telephone. Thanks. Good night.”</p>
			<p>But before taking five steps he whirled back to me.</p>
			<p>“By the way, Miss Keate,” he said in a low voice so that the little cluster of white-clad nurses around the dumbwaiter could not hear him. “By the way, it seems peculiar that after the inquest when the matter of your seeing this hypodermic needle was brought to light so publicly, no one tried to retrieve it. One wonders why. And another thing⁠—I should like to know where this Jim Gainsay spent the time between your meeting him at the corner of the porch, and his starting to town in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s car. There are, according to your story, about fifteen minutes unaccounted for⁠—Good night, again.”</p>
			<p>I did not return to the south wing until midnight. I found only Maida there for second watch, Miss Dotty having arranged the schedule of nursing hours on its old basis, thus depriving us of our temporary increased help. I thought it somewhat presumptuous of Miss Dotty, who, after all, is only superintendent of nurses and has no jurisdiction over our wing. Olma Flynn had been placed on first watch, as formerly, and on relieving her she assured me that everything was going well and though the new patient in Eighteen was a trifle restless, I had expected that, so I thought nothing of it.</p>
			<p>Olma had locked the south door and its key hung peacefully on its customary nail. Under Maida’s understanding gaze I took the key from the nail and slipped it under an order pad on the chart desk; if anyone wanted it that night he should have to ask for it!</p>
			<p>I hadn’t been on the floor ten minutes when Eighteen’s light went on; upon answering it I found my patient sitting bolt upright in bed, with the small light over the bed glowing brightly.</p>
			<p>“I don’t like this bed, nurse!” he said. His rumpled gray hair gave him a rather ferocious aspect and his pajama coat was all wrinkled and twisted from flouncing around on the bed.</p>
			<p>His words gave me rather a turn for, as far as that went, I didn’t like the bed myself. But I advanced coolly enough and began straightening the tossed sheets and blanket.</p>
			<p>“What is the matter with it?” I asked, in my professionally comfortable voice. I was not prepared for his reply.</p>
			<p>“It feels like a coffin,” he said, staring gloomily at his feet.</p>
			<p>“Like a coffin!”</p>
			<p>He glanced at me sharply.</p>
			<p>“Like a coffin,” he repeated stubbornly. “I don’t like it.”</p>
			<p>“Nonsense,” I said, recovering myself and reaching for a pillow. “You aren’t used to it, that’s all.”</p>
			<p>“What do they make them so high for?” he said peevishly, peering over the edge of the bed. “If I’d fall out I’d have a long way to go.”</p>
			<p>“You’re not going to fall out,” I reassured him. “And if they didn’t make them high we nurses would break our backs. That is the greatest lifesaver for nurses that anybody ever found. You see, if they were built at the height of ordinary beds we would have to bend away over⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Well, they don’t have to be so narrow,” he interrupted sulkily. “Every time I turn over I have to grab to save myself from going out.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it isn’t that bad, is it?” I plumped the pillows briskly, replaced them and pulled the draw sheet straight. “Now, that will be better. Try to relax and lie quiet.”</p>
			<p>He subsided on the pillow, still muttering childishly.</p>
			<p>It seemed close in the room, so I raised the window higher and brought him a fresh drink of water. Of course, if the window had already been up I should have lowered it; I make it a point to fuss around the room a little just to make the patient think I’m doing things for his comfort, and nine times out of ten he will drop off to sleep at once.</p>
			<p>This was the tenth time, however, for within half an hour Eighteen’s light flickered on again. Maida answered it that time and when she came out she looked very peculiar.</p>
			<p>“What is the matter?” I asked, meeting her in the corridor.</p>
			<p>“It is Eighteen. He is very restless.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I know that he is.”</p>
			<p>“He⁠—” she hesitated. “He does not seem to like the room.”</p>
			<p>Our eyes met but I tried to keep the little tremor of fright out of my voice as I replied: “He isn’t accustomed to a hospital room yet, that is all.”</p>
			<p>“I hope so, I’m sure,” said Maida somewhat morosely and went on about her errand.</p>
			<p>I myself am so accustomed to the hospital that is home to me that it is only once in a while that I see it as it impresses a stranger. For a singular moment or two that night I saw it with alien eyes, so to speak; the corridor was long and strange and dark with the vases of flowers along the walls making grotesque shadows against the lighted region of the chart desk at the extreme end of the wings; the hush that always surrounds a hospital, particularly at night, seemed unfamiliar and grim; the doors swung noiselessly; the little thud of our rubber-heeled shoes along the rubberized floor-runner seemed stealthy. Our hushed, low voices had a furtive note. The hospital odours of antiseptics and soap and medicines and sickness, with under it all a lurking, faint but ever-present breath of ether, came to my nostrils with the clearness of novelty. The dim red gleams of scattered signal lights, above the black voids that were doors, seemed strange, too, and weird. I caught myself staring up and down the corridor, puzzled and wondering and faintly frightened as if I were in a new and terrifying place. Then all at once, things resolved themselves into the old, familiar wing. But the feeling of uneasiness persisted.</p>
			<p>The patient in Eighteen finally turned off his light and must have gone to sleep, for we heard nothing of him for an hour or two. We were fairly busy, with little opportunity for conversation. Along about two o’clock I found that Sonny had managed to acquire a sore throat, a hot, flushed face and icy feet. I was hurrying for camphorated oil and a hot-water bottle when Eighteen’s light shone redly above the door. I hastened to answer it.</p>
			<p>“Nurse,” said our patient firmly, his eyes quite swollen from lack of sleep, and his bedclothes more tousled than ever. “Nurse, I do not like this room. I want another.”</p>
			<p>I sighed inwardly even as I went again about the business of straightening him and the bed.</p>
			<p>“There isn’t another on the floor, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin,” I said quietly. “And anyway we can’t move you in the middle of the night.”</p>
			<p>“But I insist upon being moved,” he said, with an odd mixture of childish pettishness and adult command. What would be the result if the world at large knew these important business men as we know them! Big babies, they are, most of them!</p>
			<p>“This room is exactly like any other room,” I said.</p>
			<p>“I don’t like it!” he reiterated. “There’s⁠—there’s noises.” His eyes roved about the room uneasily. “There’s noises! Sounds like whispering.”</p>
			<p>I’ll not deny that these extraordinary words stirred my hair at its roots.</p>
			<p>“Non⁠—sense!” I brought out jerkily. “Nonsense! You are nervous.”</p>
			<p>He was regarding me with shrewd little eyes. I stared back at him, trying to appear steady and at ease, but it was no use. He raised his hand to point a square forefinger at me, shaking it emphatically in my face.</p>
			<p>“I’ll bet you ten dollars⁠—I’ll bet you a hundred dollars, right there in my pants pocket, that this is <em>the room</em>!”</p>
			<p>Fascinated, I kept my eyes on the square finger. He did not need to say what room, for I knew well what he meant. I moistened my lips.</p>
			<p>“How about it?” he went on more briskly. “How about it? Do I win?”</p>
			<p>And at my continued silence he chuckled, lying back again on the pillow.</p>
			<p>“I can see that I win,” he said. He pulled the sheet up over his shoulders, and stuffed the pillow more comfortably under his head. “Now that I know what the trouble is, I can go to sleep all right,” said this amazing man. He laughed softly. “I’m no nervous woman,” he went on with a touch of swagger. “Turn out the light, will you?”</p>
			<p>He closed his eyes with the utmost unconcern.</p>
			<p>“The whispers won’t bother me now that I know what they are,” he said casually as I moved toward the door.</p>
			<p>Still feeling shaken, I walked slowly along the corridor. What could the man mean?</p>
			<p>Resolving at length to take a lesson from my patient’s sangfroid, I tried to shrug the matter away as a fancy on his part, and proceeded to take care of Sonny’s needs, applying the hot-water bottle to his throat and the camphorated oil to his feet in the coolest fashion until Sonny remonstrated with a hoarse giggle.</p>
			<p>By three o’clock things had quieted down all over the wing. The patients were either asleep or resting and the windows dark with the blackest hour of the night. Maida was sitting at the chart desk, her white-capped head bent over Eleven’s chart, and I had gone into Sonny’s room to make sure he was all right. The whole place was as quiet and hushed as a city of the dead.</p>
			<p>I took my thermometer and shook it vigorously. And in the very act of placing it between Sonny’s lips, I lost hold on it, dropped it and whirled facing the door. For without any warning at all a scream was rising from somewhere in the wing.</p>
			<p>It rose and swelled to the very old roofs, choked horribly at its height and ceased.</p>
			<p>It was a scream of stark terror!</p>
			<p>A woman’s scream!</p>
			<p>Somehow I got into the corridor. Maida was there, too, running toward Room 18, and I followed her.</p>
			<p>It was Maida who reached for the light. It revealed our patient half out of bed, staring with blinking eyes at something on the other side of the bed.</p>
			<p>We followed his gaze. Huddled there on the floor was a woman. We saw a dark cloak, a brown hand outflung and metallic waves of hair. We both leaned closer.</p>
			<p>“It’s Corole!” cried Maida sharply.</p>
			<p>We turned her on her back. For a horrible moment I though that Eighteen had added another victim to its list. But all at once Corole opened her eyes, sat up dazedly, saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin still sitting on the edge of the bed, and at the sight her mouth opened, her eyes glared, and she pressed her hand tight across her mouth as if to prevent an outcry.</p>
			<p>The relief of seeing that she was alive was so great that Maida sank limply to a chair and I turned in natural reaction to anger.</p>
			<p>“What on earth are you doing here, Corole?” I asked warmly. “What happened to you? Are you hurt?”</p>
			<p>She ignored my questions.</p>
			<p>“Who is that?” she whispered hoarsely, pointing to the bed. There was such urgency in her tone and gesture that I replied.</p>
			<p>“That is a new patient.”</p>
			<p>“A new patient? <em>Here?</em>”</p>
			<p>“Certainly. Why not?”</p>
			<p>She looked at me; her eyes were green and shone.</p>
			<p>“When did he come?”</p>
			<p>“Late this afternoon. Why? What is the matter? Tell me what happened!”</p>
			<p>She groped for the cloak, pulled it absently around her and rose to her feet in one long, sinuous motion.</p>
			<p>“He frightened me,” she said. “I thought⁠—I saw him lying there on the bed⁠—I didn’t know you had a patient here. I thought it was⁠—I thought⁠—” With a visible effort she controlled herself, passed a hand across her pallid face. She looked terrible⁠—grim, hag-ridden; her lips were blue, her face ashen and her eyes like a frantic cat’s.</p>
			<p>And at the moment we heard hurrying footsteps in the corridor and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek, clutching a bathrobe around his pajamas, followed by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman, burst into the room. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek had a revolver in one hand, and at sight of us he paused abruptly, his eyes met Corole’s for a long moment, and I experienced the strangest feeling that they were corresponding, without words or motions, there in front of my eyes. It was the briefest of impressions, gone before the thought had more than come to me, and I saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek slowly dropping the revolver into his bathrobe pocket.</p>
			<p>“What is it?” inquired <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman. In a few words I explained the situation, as far as I could. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman surveyed us all for a space during which I could hear my own heart thudding, then he walked to the bed, drew the patient gently back and pulled the covers over him. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin submitted without a word, his gaze still on Corole.</p>
			<p>“I was frightened,” said Corole, her voice harsh. “I thought⁠—Never mind what I thought. I⁠—” She tried to smile and the grimace she made was dreadful. “I must have fainted. I’m sorry. Sorry to disturb you.”</p>
			<p>This apology was not like Corole. I started to speak, stopped myself, started again. No one seemed to hear me.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek cleared his throat.</p>
			<p>“Was there⁠—anything wrong?” he asked in what struck me as rather belated inquiry.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—” began Corole again. Her face was looking a little less hideous, and by the time she had finished she seemed more like herself. “I did not know that there was a patient in the room. I saw his figure in bed, there. It frightened me. I screamed. And fell. I suppose I roused the whole hospital. Really, Miss Keate, I do not think you should have put a patient in this room.”</p>
			<p>It was like the hussy to try to blame me, and indignation almost choked me. While I was stuttering for a suitable reply Maida spoke. At the first word I glanced at her in amazement and saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek follow my gaze.</p>
			<p>“And what were <em>you</em> doing in this room?” asked Maida. Her eyes were like twin swords, her straight black brows stern. “You had no honest business in this room, Corole Letheny! Why did you come here?”</p>
			<p>Corole’s head jerked toward Maida with a flash of green light from those crafty eyes.</p>
			<p>For a moment the two women surveyed each other, neither faltering in her steadily inimical regard. I moved uneasily and in the hush I heard one or two signal lights clicking. At the sound I pulled myself together; we should have another panic on our hands if we did not take care.</p>
			<p>“Yes, Corole,” I said decisively. “Why did you come here? And how did you get into the room?”</p>
			<p>“I think your presence demands an explanation,” added <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman quietly.</p>
			<p>She looked at me, she swept <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman’s mild brown eyes, she flickered a green glance at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek, she drew her silk wrap more closely about her, she moved her brown hands uneasily up and down its collar, and she finally replied.</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t sleep,” she said. “I got to thinking of Louis and somehow⁠—got the idea that if I came over here I might be able to⁠—to⁠—” Her excuse died away from very lack of body, she took a long breath, and raised her eyelids insolently. “I felt I must see Room 18. So I came. I got in at the window. If you have nothing more to say⁠—Good night.” Her strange eyes swept us and actually they harboured a gleam of amusement. Then she drew the cloak tightly about her, walked to the window, put one hand on the sill, and with a long, graceful movement swung herself over the sill and through the window. It was done with the nonchalance and ease of an animal and she did not even glance back at us. For an instant her gold hair shone beyond the window, then the screen came down upon a black void and she was definitely gone.</p>
			<p>No one left in the room spoke. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek made a motion as if he thought to accompany her but thought better of it. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman reached for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin’s pulse. Maida crossed the room swiftly and went into the corridor. As her starched skirts rustled past the bed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin took his eyes from the window.</p>
			<p>“I think,” he said feebly. “I think I should like to have an upstairs room.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll see in the morning,” I said absently.</p>
			<p>“<em>In the morning!</em>” observed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gastin with feeling. “Do you think I’m going to stay in this haunted room for the rest of the night!”</p>
			<p>And believe it or not, we had to give up and bundle him on a truck and take him to a temporary bed in the charity ward! This was the first time in all my years of nursing that I was so influenced by a patient and this was not accomplished without resistance on my part and extremely sulphuric language on his. In fact, he proved to be versatile in the latter respect, attaining heights that made my hair stand on end. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman was quite scarlet at the end of one climactic triumph and sent <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek hurriedly for the truck.</p>
			<p>So, all in all, it was not until I was back in the wing, and our patients had been assured by the story of a mouse that Maida in a burst of unexpected mendacity brought forth, and things were quiet and peaceful again, that I began to wonder what had been the purpose of Corole’s visit.</p>
			<p>And it was clear to me, all at once, that she was looking for something.</p>
			<p>What could that something be⁠—the radium? Could Corole believe that the radium was still in Room 18? And if so, what reason had she for her belief?</p>
			<p>And at the same time I recalled my promise to O’Leary to telephone to him if the night brought any disturbance. It was with some trepidation that I convinced myself that he could do nothing till morning anyway, and it was as well that I had forgotten my promise.</p>
			<p>I did not for a moment believe Corole’s faltering attempt at an explanation. But at the same time it occurred to me that had she been of a mind to lie she could likely have invented a much more plausible and convincing tale than the one she told.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
