<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII: The Radium Appears</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Radium Appears</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>How true it is that time, in retrospect, is measured by the events occurring therein. By which I mean, of course, that while the whole sequence of mysterious and shocking events that so deeply troubled us there at <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s really occurred during a period of only a few days, when I look back at the affair it seems to have extended over weeks. It was true, too, that every day seemed to bring its problems and those before yesterday’s problems were solved. In fact these problems so crowded each other that the only way in which I can recall their exact sequence is by referring to the days on which they took place. For instance, I see that in my account book where I have an orderly habit of noting certain things such as birthdays of relatives, dates when my insurance falls due, and such matters, I have noted several items under Wednesday, June 13th:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry">
				<p>Higgins killed in Eighteen during second watch, last night. No clue so far as I know. Wish <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. G.</abbr> would go on about his bridge building. Whole hospital much upset; several nurses threatening to leave. Police underfoot everywhere and suppose it means the whole thing over again. Sent laundry this <abbr>A.M.</abbr> Am getting nervous about second watch. Twelve pearl buttons. Wish this affair were safely over.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The “twelve pearl buttons” entry, of course, referred to the fact that I had forgotten to take them out of one of my uniforms before it went to the laundry and must remember to telephone the laundry about them. It was owing to these buttons, however, that one of the most singular and troublesome facts of the whole week came to my attention.</p>
			<p>If the second watch of the previous night had seemed like a repetition of a bad dream, then that day, Wednesday, was its continuation. The directors, irate and fussy and hysterically horrified, descended upon <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s. There were the police, O’Leary, and newspaper men just as it had been before. The only difference was that this last development seemed more terrible than that other⁠—if that were possible. There was a rather grisly fear stalking through the hushed hospital corridors: Who would be the next victim?</p>
			<p>The inquest was held at once, that very morning. It was a brief and formal affair, held in the main office with only a few present. Nothing was proved beyond the immediate fact of Higgins’s death and nothing was mentioned that I did not already know. It was evident that O’Leary regarded Higgins’s death as another piece in the puzzle that confronted him and not as an isolated crime.</p>
			<p>Shortly after lunch Lance O’Leary called me into the office.</p>
			<p>“Why did you not tell me that the key to the south door disappeared last night?” he began abruptly.</p>
			<p>“I forgot it. I ordered a new key to be made for that lock and will have it before night. But of course I had to leave the south door unlocked last night.”</p>
			<p>“It seems to me you forget rather important things.” He spoke sharply.</p>
			<p>“I have certain duties to think of,” I responded as sharply. “And anyway you didn’t ask me.”</p>
			<p>The tightness around his eyes relaxed somewhat but he did not smile. He rose, went to the door, and after a dissatisfied glance into the main hall he beckoned me into the inner office, shut the door and sat down at the desk. For a moment he sat there silently, his face in his hands.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, Miss Keate,” he said presently, motioning toward <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman’s cot, and as I did so he swung around in the swivel chair to face me. “Hope nobody wants to use this room for a few moments,” he said wearily. “I’ve got to think. Look here, was that key gone when you came on duty last night at twelve o’clock?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Olma Flynn, who has first watch, could not find it. She told me of its disappearance as soon as I came on duty.”</p>
			<p>He nodded slowly.</p>
			<p>“Thus providing an easy way into <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s.⁠ ⁠… Into the south wing⁠—” he murmured, and broke off, staring into space, his eyes clouded and far away.</p>
			<p>Then all at once he began to talk, leaned back in the chair, and linked his hands together.</p>
			<p>“In the first place,” he began, “I am convinced that the three crimes are all linked together and that the possession of the radium is the guiding motive. Other motives, such as protection or fear, may enter into the affair but the radium is the main thing. If the radium was actually placed in that loud speaker, it is now in the hands of the person who killed Higgins. To secure the radium was the reason for his entrance into the south wing and into Room 18 last night. We can’t know why Higgins was there⁠—unless⁠—unless⁠—You say that he knew where the radium was hidden; he may have tried to take it himself into his own hands.”</p>
			<p>He paused as if to consider that possibility; it did not appear to convince him, for he made an impatient gesture.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek,” he resumed, “has flatly denied that he was out last night; the mud has been brushed off his trousers and off the window sill and it is my word against his. Why is he lying? Then, too, there was someone from the Letheny cottage about the grounds last night. Huldah says that someone left the house about midnight; she heard footsteps on the stairs, and the front door squeaks. She did not know whether it was Gainsay or Miss Letheny, but she is certain that someone went out of that house about midnight and returned probably an hour later.”</p>
			<p>“Huldah tells the truth always⁠—” I began, but checked myself. If he was willing to talk I was more than willing to listen.</p>
			<p>However, I had interrupted him; he looked at me directly and began to speak more briskly and less as if he were thinking aloud.</p>
			<p>“You see, Miss Keate, it is all simmering down to the same group, the same circle of those in and about <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s. No one else could have stolen the key to the south door. And as I say, I am inclined to believe that all three crimes had the same motive, if not the same motivating force.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“I mean that in the first two crimes we find several means of death. This leads me to believe that there was a definite plan to steal the radium, possibly on the part of more than one person. In fact, I am quite sure that more than one person had determined to get hold of that radium. But the radium was left in the room. Hidden, but still in Room 18. Why? There is only one possible reason. The thief was interrupted, was forced to hide it there in order to return for it later. But why did the radium remain for so long in the speaker? Why did not the thief return for it earlier in the game? It all points to there being several people interested in that radium, which means, of course, that we may be trying to discover three murderers instead of only one.”</p>
			<p>“<em>Three!</em>”</p>
			<p>“There were three murders,” he said, laconically cool in the face of my horror. “And Higgins’s statement seems to make it sure that the first two murders were not committed by the same man.”</p>
			<p>“I am positive that the radium was concealed in the loud speaker,” he continued after a short pause. “There was no place else for it to be and it must have been in Room 18, for otherwise we would not have had such a series of disturbances in and about that room. Yes, it is evident that several people were convinced that the radium was still in the room and were searching for it. The thing that bothers me is the failure of the⁠—er⁠—original thief to return and remove the radium before anyone else found it.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps it was he last night,” I suggested.</p>
			<p>O’Leary did not appear to hear me.</p>
			<p>“There is only one reason and that⁠—if true⁠—is amazing.” He reached absently for the shabby little stub of pencil and began twisting it in his fingers, which convinced me that he was on his feet again, so to speak.</p>
			<p>Whatever the “amazing” speculation was that had occurred to him, he said nothing more of it.</p>
			<p>“I have eliminated certain factors. The first thing to do, you know is to narrow the field of investigation. I find that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jackson’s relatives, who might be supposed to have an interest in his death, have ironclad alibis.”</p>
			<p>“Oh.” I spoke none too brightly as I had never given a thought to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jackson’s relatives.</p>
			<p>“Likewise I am gradually eliminating the unknown factor⁠—I mean by that the possibility of an outsider, a hobo, perhaps, or professional thief acting on the spur of the moment, or following out a planned course of action. It seems more and more certain that those guilty of these crimes are people who are in and about <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s. But since that phase of the matter is so distasteful to you.⁠ ⁠…” His voice trailed away into nothing, he dropped the pencil, adjusted his tie, looked at his watch, ran a hand through his hair and reached for the pencil again.</p>
			<p>“There are a few matters of which I’ve been wanting to talk with you, Miss Keate. This⁠—” he lowered his voice⁠—“this Hajek. Somehow I have got the impression that he and Miss Letheny see a good deal of each other. Different people have mentioned seeing them together. Huldah says he is a frequent caller. What do you think?”</p>
			<p>“Why, yes⁠—now that I think of it, it does seem to me that they have a sort of⁠—” At loss for a word I stopped. O’Leary completed the sentence.</p>
			<p>“Understanding?”</p>
			<p>“Well, yes. And yet I have seen nothing definite. It is just a feeling that I have. And of course, the fact that he has been up at the Letheny cottage a great deal. I’ve seen him there often.”</p>
			<p>He twisted the pencil up and down; I wondered that there was any shred of paint remaining on the shabby thing.</p>
			<p>“Another thing,” he began rather hesitantly. “They say⁠—don’t ask me who says, for it is a sort of drifting gossip that we detectives have to encourage⁠—they say that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny admired the pretty nurse.”</p>
			<p>“The pretty nurse. Who?”</p>
			<p>“I thought you’d guess,” he said quietly. “I mean Miss Day.”</p>
			<p>“If he did admire her, I never knew it,” I said with vigour.</p>
			<p>“You never even surmised it?” he persisted gently.</p>
			<p>“No,” I said bluntly. “Certainly not.” And then recalled certain things. That last dinner⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s smouldering eyes on Maida⁠—the gesture with which he took her wrap⁠—those burning, restless eyes seeking her in the corridor of the south wing before he turned away through the door and I caught my last glimpse of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny alive. “That is⁠—perhaps⁠—yes,” I amended in a smaller voice.</p>
			<p>“Did Miss Day return his⁠—interest?”</p>
			<p>“No. I’m sure that she did not. Quite the contrary.”</p>
			<p>“Quite the contrary?”</p>
			<p>“I mean that I believe she disliked him particularly. I do not know why.”</p>
			<p>He lifted his eyes from the pencil. They were clear now and very gray.</p>
			<p>“You would likely know,” he said casually. “You possess the strangest aura of⁠—integrity. One feels you are a respecter of confidences. I presume you are the repository of many secrets.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sure I don’t know any secrets,” I replied hastily. The man needn’t think he could worm things out of me. “I wish,” I added, “I wish that you had talked to Higgins.”</p>
			<p>His expression became serious at once.</p>
			<p>“I wish so too,” he said soberly. “Though as far as that goes I did talk to Higgins, but couldn’t get a thing out of him. He must have been desperately afraid of getting into trouble.” He eyed the stub of pencil solicitously. “… getting into trouble,” he repeated musingly.</p>
			<p>“If I had only known the danger he was in,” I said regretfully. “But somehow we never know until it is too late.”</p>
			<p>“About this matter of the lights going out last night. It seems to coincide too strangely with the affair of Thursday night. The lights being out at that time was, of course, an accident, but one is inclined to think that someone profited by that accident to such an extent that he decided to repeat the fortuitous circumstances. But it was actually no accident this time; the switch plug had been purposely pulled out. Now then, the switch box is in the basement, on the wall next to the grade door that leads out just below the main entrance.”</p>
			<p>I nodded as his keen, serious eyes rose to mine.</p>
			<p>“That grade door was locked and the key inside the lock as it should be. Was there time, Miss Keate, between the lights going out and the sound of the shot for someone to come from that grade door around the corner of the hospital, enter the south door in the darkness, go into Eighteen, which is right next to the south door, take the radium from the loud speaker and⁠—and that is as far as we know. We can only surmise, now, how Higgins came into it.”</p>
			<p>“The intruder might have been Higgins, himself.” I was suddenly struck by the thought. “He would have access to the basement, could have stolen the key from the chart desk that would open the south door if it were locked. Perhaps he was taking the radium out of the speaker; he told me, you know, that he knew where it was hidden.”</p>
			<p>“All the circumstances point to what we call an inside job,” admitted O’Leary slowly. “But someone besides Higgins was in Room 18.”</p>
			<p>“The window?” I suggested.</p>
			<p>“No. He could not have come through the window for it was still bolted. How about it, Miss Keate?” He returned to his inquiry. “How long a time elapsed between the lights going out and the sound of the shot?”</p>
			<p>“It seemed a long time,” I said hesitantly. “You see, it was so still and dark and I was a little frightened. I waited for a few moments, thinking that the lights would come on again. Yes, I think there was time enough for⁠—for all that you think took place. While I waited I felt a current of air on my shoulders.”</p>
			<p>He looked up quickly.</p>
			<p>“That was the door opening, then. You are sure about the length of time? You see it is rather important that we settle that point definitely for if there was not time for all that to go on, it would indicate that there were two people, <em>besides Higgins</em>, who were interested in getting into Room 18 last night. And that one of them managed the business of turning off the lights and the other came into Room 18 with the results of which we know. Confound it!” He broke off suddenly. “I wish I needn’t have to figure on more than one or two ways of getting in and out of this old hospital. Don’t you <em>ever</em> have thieves in a hospital! Don’t you ever have to safeguard yourselves!”</p>
			<p>“Only the third and fourth floor windows,” I said absently.</p>
			<p>He snorted.</p>
			<p>“The third and fourth floor windows! That does me a lot of good!”</p>
			<p>“On account of delirious patients,” I said rebukingly. “And as for there being two people trying to get the radium, I think there must be at least that many. I don’t believe that one person, alone and unaided, could make so much trouble.”</p>
			<p>He grinned faintly at that, and then frowned.</p>
			<p>“The chief of police wants to arrest the whole outfit at once. He is convinced that you are all in a conspiracy and that Gainsay is the leader. Of course, I don’t want to make such a wholesale cleaning. Especially since I⁠—I believe that I’m getting warm. But I don’t want any arrests yet. I don’t want to put anybody on guard.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> O’Leary,” I said eagerly, emboldened by his half-confidence. “I have heard things of you, of course⁠—what wonderful success you have and all that. What methods do you use?”</p>
			<p>He thrust his hands into his pockets, leaned back in the chair and sighed.</p>
			<p>“Methods? I don’t have any methods. And as to success⁠—wait a few days.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t have any methods?”</p>
			<p>“The moment when I’m feeling most useless and most like a failure is not the moment to ask me to tell of my successes. Or my methods. I don’t have methods. I take what the Lord sends and am thankful. Sometimes it is a matter of luck. Mostly it is a matter of drudgery and hard work. Always it is a matter of thinking, thinking, thinking. Of eating, living, sleeping with problems for days and nights. Usually, just about the time you have decided that none of the pieces of the puzzle can possibly fit, all at once something happens and⁠—Click! Things clarify. There is a reason for everything. Nothing just happens. Nothing is an isolated fact. If you have a fact, you know that certain circumstances had to combine to bring it about. It is just logic, reason, the physical, material quality of cause and effect. There isn’t anything mysterious about it. It is just the⁠—the arithmetic of analysis. I don’t mean that I am infallible. I have to reconsider and revise and correct mistakes, just like anybody else. I’m human⁠—and young. But when you <em>know</em> that there is a solution, to the most puzzling problem, all there is to do is worry it out. I suppose the subconscious mind helps.”</p>
			<p>“That is rather abstract,” I said slowly.</p>
			<p>“I suppose it sounds that way. Well⁠—here is one definite and concrete trick. As a rule, given enough rope a man can hang himself. Often I find that there will be one little circumstance that only the guilty man knows. Sooner or later he lets it out. Sometimes I have to trap the man I suspect into such an admission.”</p>
			<p>I’m sure my eyes were popping out.</p>
			<p>“Then that is why you made that extraordinary request of me at the first inquest!” I exclaimed. “I could not understand it. The thing you mentioned seemed so insignificant.”</p>
			<p>It was remarkable that his eyes could be so clear and so unfathomable at the same time.</p>
			<p>“I trust you are discreet,” he said evenly.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I shan’t tell, if that is what you mean,” I promised hastily. “I am as interested in solving this mystery as you are. Indeed, I think I may say that I am far more deeply interested.”</p>
			<p>“Well, keep your eyes and ears open,” he said, smiling and rising to open the door for me, and I found myself out in the main hall before I knew it.</p>
			<p>It was only a few moments later that I saw him leave; I remember standing at the window beside the main entrance, and watching his long gray roadster swoop silently and swiftly around the curve of the main driveway and into the road. He was seated at the wheel, a slight gray figure, intent only on the muddy highway ahead of him. There was a suggestion of power, of invincibility, in the very repose and economy of motion with which he controlled the long-nosed roadster.</p>
			<p>As I turned away I met Maida.</p>
			<p>“Such a day!” she murmured with a sigh. “Have you been able to sleep?”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t tried,” I said. “I knew it would be no use.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Dotty is still upset,” went on Maida. “And the training nurses are following their own devices, and everybody is afraid of her own shadow. I wish this business was all settled and forgotten about.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t wish it any more than I do,” I agreed fervently. “But I do think that O’Leary is doing everything within his power.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose so,” said Maida, without much conviction. She was looking pale and rather ill. “Wasn’t that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> O’Leary driving away a moment ago?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t know that he was here at <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s. He hasn’t seen fit to question me yet”⁠—she smiled rather ruefully⁠—“as to poor Higgins. Except, of course, as he did at the inquest and that was so little. I felt he was reserving his inquiry, didn’t you? But I thought <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> O’Leary had gone back to town long ago.”</p>
			<p>“No. He just left.” I paused to yawn. “I’m going to try to get some sleep. Better do likewise.” But she shook her head, murmuring something about work, and I went to my room.</p>
			<p>Luckily I managed to fall into an uneasy sleep. It was when I had awakened that I found I possessed but one remaining clean uniform and it was of a style that demanded the buttons I had sent to the laundry. Recalling the fact that Maida had an extra set, I went to her room to borrow. She was not there but I went boldly into the room.</p>
			<p>And I found the radium!</p>
			<p>It was in the pincushion, a pretty trifle of mauve taffeta ruffles that I picked up idly to examine more closely. When I felt the shape under the taffeta, when my fingers outlined it, I could not have resisted tearing it apart. The cotton stuffing had been removed and the small box that held the radium was there instead.</p>
			<p>I don’t know how long I stood as if frozen to the spot. I remember noting that the neat sewing had been torn out as if hastily, and that wide hurried stitches held the seam together. And I remember hearing the voices of several girls passing in the hall outside and thinking that Maida would be coming to her room.</p>
			<p>O’Leary had said: “The person who has the radium is the one that killed Higgins.”</p>
			<p>I could not face Maida with this thing in my hand.</p>
			<p>And I could not leave the radium where it was.</p>
			<p>In another moment I found myself back in my room, the radium, pincushion and all, locked away, the key securely hidden and my mind made up. Painful though it was I should have to tell O’Leary immediately of this thing. I do not hold friendship lightly and the shock of finding the stolen radium in Maida’s possession almost unnerved me.</p>
			<p>I had forgotten about the buttons and it was something of an anticlimax to catch myself starting down to dinner in a black silk kimono. I had to go to the bottom of my trunk for an old uniform that I had cast aside as being too tight. It was still too tight and very uncomfortable, being made with a Bishop collar which is high and stiff and scratched the lobes of my ears.</p>
			<p>There was no need to telephone to O’Leary, for as I neared the general office I caught a glimpse of his smooth brown head bent over some papers on the long table. I entered.</p>
			<p>“I have found the radium,” I said quietly.</p>
			<p>He looked up, jumped to his feet. I did not need to repeat my words.</p>
			<p>“Where is it?”</p>
			<p>“In my room. Shall I bring it to you?”</p>
			<p>He hesitated, his eyes travelling around the office with its several doors and windows.</p>
			<p>“This is too public. Someone would be sure to see it. Where did you find it?”</p>
			<p>I swallowed.</p>
			<p>“In⁠—Miss Day’s room.”</p>
			<p>His gaze narrowed thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>“You must tell me about it later. First I must have the radium.”</p>
			<p>Our voices had dropped to whispers and my heart was pounding.</p>
			<p>“Shall we put it in the safe?” I motioned toward the inner office which holds a great steel safe, in a prepared compartment of which the radium is usually kept.</p>
			<p>“No.” O’Leary shook his head decisively. “No. I must put it in the hands of the chief of police at once. Look here, Miss Keate; in three minutes I shall walk slowly across the main hall with this bundle of newspapers under my arm. At the foot of the stairway I shall pass you just descending. It is rather dark there by the stairs. Hand me the box and keep right on going. Don’t stop. Later I shall see you and hear how you found it.”</p>
			<p>I followed his bidding. As I came slowly down the last flight of stairs he walked carelessly across the hall. There was no one about and I was sure that the transfer was effected without anyone’s knowledge.</p>
			<p>With a casual nod I went on around the turn and followed the basement stairs down to the dining room. I ate what was set before me and kept my eyes from Maida.</p>
			<p>It must have been about twenty minutes later that I ascended the stairs again and paused in the main hall. There was a light in the general office, excited voices, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman were bending over something that lay on the long table.</p>
			<p>I entered.</p>
			<p>Lance O’Leary was stretched on the table, his face lead-gray, his eyes closed. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman had out his stethoscope and was listening intently and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek was forcing aromatic ammonia through O’Leary’s pale lips.</p>
			<p>There was a rapidly swelling lump back of O’Leary’s right ear and the small box that was so precious was not to be seen.</p>
			<p>At a glance I understood.</p>
			<p>“Is he⁠—alive, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman nodded, detaching the stethoscope with long hands that shook.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek and I were starting down to dinner,” he explained. His voice sounded hoarse and his anxious eyes were fixed upon O’Leary. “We found him like this. All huddled on the floor there near the stairway.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
