<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
                                <h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
                                <p epub:type="title">A Lapis Cuff Link</p>
                        </hgroup>	
			<p>From that morning on I took an active interest in the case⁠—I mean, in solving the problem. Indeed, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> O’Leary has had the kindness to say, since, that I helped⁠—well, I need not repeat his words. However, it is true that I did everything in my power, which was little enough, to solve the mystery that confronted us. While I am not at all inquisitive, nevertheless I do have an inquiring mind, due doubtless to the fact that I have lived in a hospital for a number of years and hospitals are hotbeds of gossip. Not malicious gossip, you understand, for nurses are one class of women in the world who can keep the faith which the ethics of the profession as well as individual integrity demand.</p>
			<p>But anything that happens in our small world is of interest; the patient in the charity ward who almost swallowed a thermometer and had to be up-ended and shaken, the precipitate arrival of a new baby in a roadster out in front of the hospital, or the alcoholic whose language shocked⁠—or diverted as the case might be⁠—a whole wing.</p>
			<p>Besides the fact that the murders had occurred in the south wing, for which I feel a responsibility⁠—the wing, I mean, not the murders!⁠—there were other and as serious considerations. Chief among these was the affair of the hypodermic syringe and Maida’s inexplicable behaviour the night of the seventh, and the presence of Jim Gainsay as testified by that gold cigarette case.</p>
			<p>A hospital ought to be sanctuary and it seemed to me an offense against all the laws of humanity that this hideous thing should have happened within our walls of mercy. I deliberately tried to put myself in the frame of mind to be suspicious about anything and everything⁠—and I trust it is no reflection on my character to say that I succeeded without much effort.</p>
			<p>I found plenty to be suspicious about, and without going out of the way to do so. The only trouble was that, though I pride myself on being a keen and clear-minded woman and have more than the usual amount of determination, I could not arrive at any conclusion.</p>
			<p>I worried all day about Maida, however, and when Lance O’Leary turned up about four o’clock, with a polite request for an interview, I did not know whether to be glad or sorry.</p>
			<p>We went into the general waiting room to talk. It was a chilly place, with slippery leather-covered furniture and on the wall a none too cheerful picture of the burning of Joan of Arc. The weather had settled into a steady, dripping rain by that time, the clouds were still heavy, and the very concrete steps of the main entrance, just below the windows, oozed moisture. It was an added distress that not once during those strange days did we see the sun. Everything we touched was damp and cold and sweaty.</p>
			<p>O’Leary was as meticulously groomed as he had been the day before, but there was about him a sort of quiet but intense concentration that seemed to detach him from ordinary affairs of the world. I have seen the same thing in the face of an artist I used to know⁠—and in the face of a dear and saintly old nun under whom I trained.</p>
			<p>There was nothing, however, of the poseur about him. He was ordinarily rather silent, was occasionally oddly boyish and young, was simple and direct⁠—it was his unconscious absorption that marked him. And those extraordinarily clear gray eyes.</p>
			<p>He asked a few commonplace questions as to how I felt, and were things going well, and was the policeman of any use. Then, he reached absently into his pocket and drew out the stubby red pencil.</p>
			<p>“Miss Day was your assistant in the wing the night of the seventh?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. We have second watch together this two weeks.”</p>
			<p>“How long has she been here at <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s?”</p>
			<p>“Three years.”</p>
			<p>“She is a good nurse, I judge? Cool and restrained?”</p>
			<p>“One of the best.”</p>
			<p>“She is a friend of yours?”</p>
			<p>“I admire her very much,” I said warmly. “She is a girl of high moral character, thoroughly honourable and reliable.”</p>
			<p>“M’h’m⁠—” He began to roll the inevitable little pencil.</p>
			<p>“I suppose a nurse becomes fairly well acquainted with the other nurses, as well as the doctors, who frequent the hospital?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I said doubtfully, not seeing just where his questions were tending.</p>
			<p>“Miss Day looks to be a girl of strong likes and dislikes.”</p>
			<p>Well, that was perfectly true so I contented myself with a nod.</p>
			<p>“She was a good friend of Miss Letheny’s and⁠—of the doctor’s?”</p>
			<p>“Not⁠—particularly,” I said slowly. “We were all on friendly terms. Corole had us over there often.”</p>
			<p>“Did Miss Day work much with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny?”</p>
			<p>“About as I did. She is a good surgical nurse.”</p>
			<p>“You mean she is efficient in assisting with operations?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose that requires⁠—nerve? Courage? A cool hand?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.” I was beginning to feel uneasy.</p>
			<p>He paused for a moment, his gray eyes on the heavy clouds beyond the window.</p>
			<p>“Tell me again, Miss Keate, just what you did when you first found that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jackson was dead.”</p>
			<p>“I left Room 18 and went to get a candle. When I returned Miss Day was in the doorway of Eighteen. There was a flash of lightning, and I saw her and she spoke to me.”</p>
			<p>“What did she say?”</p>
			<p>“Just something about the storm. She had been closing windows in the wing.”</p>
			<p>“Did she know that Jackson was dead?”</p>
			<p>“Why, no! Not until I lit the candle and she saw him.”</p>
			<p>“She was surprised, of course?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Then, as I understand it, she went through the dark corridor to the general office to telephone to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny. Was she willing to go? Or was she⁠—reluctant?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—she⁠—”</p>
			<p>He caught my hesitation.</p>
			<p>“She did not wish to telephone to him?”</p>
			<p>“The corridor was so dark you could hardly see your hand before you,” I remarked crisply. “And it was storming.”</p>
			<p>“Of course, of course,” said O’Leary pacifically.</p>
			<p>“Miss Letheny told Miss Day that the doctor was out,” he went on quietly. “Then she, Miss Day, had the presence of mind to call <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman. I suppose she knew his telephone number? Or was there some kind of light in the office?”</p>
			<p>“She asked Information for the number.”</p>
			<p>“Then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman came out here at once?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. He was here in just a few moments. He lives at the first apartment house off Lake Street and it is only a short drive.”</p>
			<p>“In the meantime you waked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. He sleeps in that little room that opens into the general office. He usually answers ’phone calls at night and⁠—keeps an eye on things. Unless he is asleep,” I added waspishly, thinking of how soundly he had slept when we needed him most.</p>
			<p>“Why did not Miss Day call <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek, when she called <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman?”</p>
			<p>“She did try to but could not wake him. But <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s assistant and should be called in a matter of such importance.”</p>
			<p>“Then you called <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek yourself. I suppose you told him what had happened.”</p>
			<p>“No. I was so excited that I just told him to go at once to Room 18. I even pushed him toward the door.” I smiled a little. “I took him by the coat and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Took him by the coat? Then he was fully dressed!” O’Leary’s gaze pierced mine.</p>
			<p>“Yes.” I paused as a certain recollection thrust itself upon me. “He must have been outside! In the rain!”</p>
			<p>“Why do you say that?”</p>
			<p>“His coat was damp.”</p>
			<p>O’Leary studied the pencil for a long time.</p>
			<p>“Then what happened?” he asked finally in an inflectionless voice.</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—then⁠—then I got hold of some lights and went back to Eighteen. They were all there, Maida and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman. They were just staring at the patient and doing nothing. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman told me that he had died of an overdose of morphine. Of course, I knew that not a grain of morphine had been ordered. So that meant that it was done purposely. It was while we were standing there that⁠—” I stopped. No need to tell that!</p>
			<p>But he glanced at me quickly.</p>
			<p>“Go on, Miss Keate.”</p>
			<p>“It was nothing.”</p>
			<p>“Then you should not object to telling of it.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” I began reluctantly, “it was only that, as we were standing there, all at once there was a tiny bit of red that came from the hypodermic wound. You know the little pin prick where the needle has been inserted. It was⁠—” I coughed to hide the tremble in my voice. “It was⁠—very unusual.”</p>
			<p>I could see that Lance O’Leary, for all his professional frigidity, was somewhat shaken, for his hands gripped the pencil tightly and he drew a deliberate breath.</p>
			<p>“That old superstition means nothing,” he said. “But it must have been⁠—grisly. And there were only you and Miss Day and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman in the room?”</p>
			<p>My throat being dry I made an assenting gesture.</p>
			<p>“And⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny in the closet,” added O’Leary softly.</p>
			<p>At that I must have gone quite pale, for Lance O’Leary, eyeing me with that oddly lucid gaze, spoke abruptly, as if to distract my thoughts.</p>
			<p>“I believe you are a woman of some discretion.”</p>
			<p>“I ought to be! At my age.”</p>
			<p>“The fact inclines one to talk with you,” he said drily. “Look here, Miss Keate, this is not going to be an easy job. In the first place it is obvious that the guilty person is very likely someone who is familiar with <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s.” I made some protestant motion and he went on: “Surely that has occurred to you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I replied in a small voice.</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“Because it must have been someone who knew that the radium was being used and in what room.”</p>
			<p>“And one who was familiar enough with the hospital routine to know the best time to enter the wing unobserved,” said O’Leary.</p>
			<p>“That eliminates Jim Gainsay,” I remarked without thinking.</p>
			<p>He regarded me keenly.</p>
			<p>“We will come to him later,” he said. “As to the radium⁠—yes, I think we can assume that the radium theft was at least one of the motives. Its disappearance indicates that, though it might be merely a blind. But the radium is very valuable, a small fortune to many men. As a matter of routine we have taken steps to insure the immediate reporting of anyone trying to dispose of a quantity of radium. I do not expect to hear from this, however, for the person who has the radium will naturally wait until this affair has blown over before attempting to sell the stuff. Yes, the radium theft may account for the death of Jackson but not for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny. At least not unless⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Unless he caught the thief?” I interrupted eagerly.</p>
			<p>“If that were true, how account for his stealthy return to <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s and the fact that he did not call for help?” He paused but I said nothing and he continued: “Then there is the obvious conjecture that the person who administered the morphine must have been either so skilled that he could do so without awaking Jackson, or someone to whom the patient was accustomed. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny had charge of the case⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek helped him some,” I blurted. “And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman was in to see him once or twice. And there were the nurses⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Then it appears to lie between <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman and you and Miss Day,” said O’Leary all too coolly. I gasped and he went on: “And the unknown element which is always to be considered. We can’t tell which died first⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny or his patient. We do not even know for certain whether <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny met his death inside the walls of the hospital or not, but I have reason to believe that it was in Room 18. Otherwise it would have been difficult and purposeless, so far as I can see, to convey his body into the room and into that closet. Almost impossible for a woman,” he added as if in afterthought, and his eyes on that aggravating pencil. “I am inclined to think that the sound you heard and believed to be a window dropping to the sill was actually the blow that meant death for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny.”</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—!”</p>
			<p>“Yes.” His eyes were meeting mine, searching my face so intently that I felt as if my very thoughts were visible to them. “Now, Miss Keate, please tell me something of this Corole Letheny. I understand that she and her cousin were not on the best of terms.”</p>
			<p>“That is true,” I acknowledged hesitantly.</p>
			<p>“Don’t be afraid of incriminating anyone,” said O’Leary impatiently. “Clues are funny things. When they seem to point one way they are very apt, on close investigation, to point another way entirely. So please don’t hesitate to answer my questions.”</p>
			<p>This reassured me somewhat; not that I have ever cared for Corole Letheny, but one does pause to consider one’s speech in such a serious matter.</p>
			<p>“Corole and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny never did get along well together. But I don’t think she can be involved in this.” Thinking of the oddly mud-stained slippers, I paused again. That incident could have had nothing to do with the murders, of course, but still it was singular.</p>
			<p>“What is it, Miss Keate?”</p>
			<p>Before I knew it I had told him of the muddied bronze kid pumps.</p>
			<p>“Indicating that Miss Letheny had some errand that took her hurriedly into the storm and that within a few moments following the discovery of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s death. Suppose you ask this maid, Huldah, about it. She will be more willing to talk to you. Oh, yes”⁠—he smiled a little⁠—“we must investigate every incident, every straw, no matter how small and insignificant it appears. And moreover,” he drew something from his pocket, “I am interested in Miss Letheny because of this.” He placed the small, square object on the table before us. I stared. It was Corole Letheny’s revolver. She had bragged about the thing often enough so I had no difficulty recognizing it. Someone had made her a gift of it, and it was very unsuitably decorated with some sort of silver trumpery and had her initials engraved upon it.</p>
			<p>“We found this on the floor of the closet in which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny was found,” said O’Leary quietly.</p>
			<p>For a long moment I sat there in silence, my eyes fascinated by the dully gleaming thing. What could it tell?</p>
			<p>“But⁠—neither of the men was shot!” I said at length.</p>
			<p>“No,” agreed O’Leary, still quietly. “No. There is only the fact to go on that Corole Letheny’s revolver was found in the room where two men met their death in one night. That is all. It only indicates her probable presence at some time in the room. And a revolver usually means that whoever carried it had reason to believe he was in danger⁠—or expected trouble of some kind.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny might have brought it himself. He might have suspected that someone was planning to steal the radium.”</p>
			<p>Lance O’Leary smiled slowly.</p>
			<p>“You are loyal, Miss Keate. It may interest you to know that on going through <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s deed box, I found that he was the beneficiary of a reasonably large income and that on his death it goes to Corole. I find, too⁠—you see we detectives make our living by questions and answers,” he interpolated, as I suppose I looked as I felt, very much puzzled at the knowledge he appeared to have secured⁠—“I find, too, that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny kept his household down to the most moderate of expenses and gave Miss Letheny only a barely sufficient allowance.”</p>
			<p>“It is true that she has complained a great deal about money,” I admitted thoughtfully. “She is rather beautiful, you know, and loves to dress well.”</p>
			<p>He nodded.</p>
			<p>“You have seen her then?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Yesterday. I talked to her. Yes, I suppose she does love clothes and finery. It is on account of her⁠—dark blood.”</p>
			<p>“Her what?” I sat bolt upright.</p>
			<p>“Good Lord, Miss Keate! Didn’t you know that?”</p>
			<p>“Know that Corole Letheny is a⁠⸺?”</p>
			<p>“I think it comes to her by way of Haiti,” he interrupted. “And a very beautiful mother.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—her light hair and eyes! You must be mistaken!”</p>
			<p>“Her eyes are yellow, Miss Keate. A good deal like a tiger’s. In fact she is a rather tigerish lady, on the whole. I suspected it when I first saw her brown hands, and was convinced when I found a reference to her in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s papers; once he mentions her rather bitterly as ‘my mulatto cousin,’ and another time refers to her birthplace and his aunt, Jolbar, who, it seems, traced her lineage directly, if unobtrusively, to a cannibalistic royal line. Don’t be so shocked, Miss Keate. A little mixture of blood doesn’t hurt her. It only increases my difficulty.”</p>
			<p>“Increases your difficulty?” I murmured, feeling rather dazed.</p>
			<p>“By increasing the complexities of a personality that I must classify and index. You see,” he went on, as I still did not wholly understand him, “Corole is a factor to be considered along with the rest of the possibilities. And this fact warns me that she likely has a streak of savagery back of those yellow eyes; that the beat of tom-toms would stir her, for instance. She is apt to be rather indolent, too, and to seek what she desires in unconventional ways. Such as by the use of revolvers.”</p>
			<p>“Why, yes,” I murmured idiotically. “Murder <em>is</em> unconventional.”</p>
			<p>“So you see, the counts against Corole are interesting, to say the least. Then, there are the others at that ill-fated dinner party. We shall have to consider the possible culpability of every single one of them⁠—even of you, Miss Keate.” He added this with a half smile but I did not relish his joke⁠—if joke it was. I was inclined to think it was not.</p>
			<p>“Corole Letheny,” he checked her off on his fingers. “Because her revolver was found in the closet of Room 18, because she knew of the radium being in use and of the hospital routine and of the door being left unlocked and because she benefits by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s death.”</p>
			<p>“But I’m sure she did not know what had happened to the radium,” I said, going hastily on to tell him of her questions concerning it.</p>
			<p>“She shows considerable interest, however,” commented O’Leary. “And at an inappropriate time, too. Yes, we must consider Corole.”</p>
			<p>“But she⁠—oh, she could not have done that!” I cried, revolted.</p>
			<p>“We can’t be sure of anything, Miss Keate, until it is proved,” remarked O’Leary drily. “Then, there is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek; he was like the others, familiar with the circumstances, he had access to the morphine, being a doctor, and his coat was damp when, after some delay, you finally succeeded in rousing him, which, of course, leads one to believe that he was absent from his room and had recently been out in the rain.”</p>
			<p>“But,” I objected, “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek was the only one of us who did not admit to wanting money⁠—if we are to consider the radium as the motive.”</p>
			<p>“That does not prove anything. Indeed, it was more natural to admit a desire that everybody experiences at one time or another. Then, there was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman. He, too, was familiar with the circumstances. Of course there remains the important questions of how <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny comes into the puzzle, and whether <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman could have had time to drive to his apartment in order to be there when the telephone rang to call him back to the hospital.”</p>
			<p>“Why, yes,” I said thoughtfully. “He could have done so. You see, just as the storm broke and I was at the south door, closing it, I saw the lights of a car on the lower road. That <em>could</em> have been <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman. But the idea is absurd. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman is too mild, too kind⁠—too⁠—Oh! It is impossible!”</p>
			<p>“Nothing is impossible,” commented Lance O’Leary gravely. “But those lights may have belonged to another car. One driven by Jim Gainsay.”</p>
			<p>I may have imagined it, but it seemed to me, in view of my guilty knowledge of that cigarette case, that he eyed me rather closely as he spoke. However, if so he gained nothing by it, for I was honestly surprised.</p>
			<p>“Jim Gainsay!” I cried.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he answered, going on to explain. “The sedan owned by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny was seen standing in front of the Western Union office at about two o’clock that night. This information was brought to my ears and upon investigation I found that Gainsay took the Doctor’s car⁠—Huldah, in fact, saw him leave⁠—and drove into the city, starting shortly before the storm began. He sent a message, of which I shall have a copy before the day is over. We also know that Gainsay frankly said he intended to get hold of fifty thousand dollars⁠—wasn’t it that?” I nodded dumbly and he went on. “And he intended to go to New York this morning but is still here, work or no work. Also, as with the others, he knew something of the circumstances, and while his being able to obtain and administer morphine is a point to consider, still I understand that engineers almost have to have a practical working knowledge of medicine. But even if we could safely exonerate him from causing Jackson’s death there is still the death of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny, for which somebody is responsible. And this Gainsay is a strong young fellow who looks as if he would stick at little.”</p>
			<p>“But he looks honest, too,” I protested.</p>
			<p>“They all look honest. Everyone of you.”</p>
			<p>“It seems terrible to consider people one knows in such a sordid connection. Why not all the other people in and around the hospital?”</p>
			<p>He looked at me as if he were amused.</p>
			<p>“But, Miss Keate, is it possible that you do not know that we immediately accounted for every soul in <abbr>St.</abbr> Ann’s? And that every nurse and every patient has a perfect alibi, save you and Miss Day, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek? In a hospital run with such efficient routine as this one, it is a simple matter. The only person besides those I have mentioned, for whom we can’t be absolutely certain, is Higgins, and that because he sleeps in the basement next to the furnace room and no one saw or heard of him during that night, since no one else sleeps in the basement. Of course, we shall have to include him in our list of suspects, but so far there is nothing but opportunity with which to suspect him.”</p>
			<p>“Then Maida and I are the only nurses who cannot prove just where we were between twelve thirty and two o’clock that night?” I asked uneasily.</p>
			<p>“We know <em>where</em> you were,” said Lance O’Leary very soberly. “You were both in the south wing.” He paused to look at his watch, a thin, platinum affair that reposed in a pocket of his impeccable vest, and I felt a quite warranted chill creep up my back.</p>
			<p>“So you see our paths of search are limited,” he said easily, replacing the watch, and returning to that abominable red pencil.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I agreed weakly. “Limited.” Altogether too limited!</p>
			<p>“Of course, there is always what I spoke of as the unknown element. There might have been an outside intruder, but so far nothing has come to light that would indicate that possibility. The use of the radium seems to have been absolutely unknown to all but the hospital staff and the guests at Miss Letheny’s dinner party. Now then, Miss Keate, there are three things that particularly interest me to-day. One of them is the identity of the man with whom you collided at the corner of the porch. Did you receive any sort of impression that would serve to identify him?”</p>
			<p>Nervously I tried to think of something besides the cigarette case.</p>
			<p>“He⁠—I think he wore a raincoat. I seem to remember the slippery feeling of rubber. And I think he must have been wearing a dinner-jacket, for I seem to recall feeling his starched shirt front.”</p>
			<p>“Then it might have been one of the four men at Corole Letheny’s dinner?”</p>
			<p>“It might have been, of course,” I spoke rather irritably, as I foresaw the next questions.</p>
			<p>“Was it <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think so. I can’t be sure.”</p>
			<p>He was surveying me so closely that I found my eyes going toward the floor in spite of myself.</p>
			<p>“Was it <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman?”</p>
			<p>“It might have been. Though it seemed he was a little taller than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Balman.” I was studying the roses on the old-fashioned Brussels.</p>
			<p>“Was it <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hajek?” he went on mercilessly.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I tell you, I can’t be sure who it was. It might have been anybody.”</p>
			<p>He leaned back in his chair and I could feel his smile.</p>
			<p>“I’m beginning to understand your⁠—er⁠—temperament,” he said easily. “I suppose it was this Jim Gainsay. Now you may as well tell me what you were doing with his cigarette case in your laundry bag.”</p>
			<p>I blinked.</p>
			<p>“How did you know it was there?”</p>
			<p>“A policeman found it while searching your room.”</p>
			<p>“Searching my room!”</p>
			<p>“Yes. We have had all the personal belongings of those in whom we are⁠—interested⁠—searched. We were at first surprised to find you were addicted to smoking⁠—⁠and more surprised when we traced its ownership. Now, please, tell me just how you came upon it.”</p>
			<p>In as few words as possible I complied.</p>
			<p>“Will you hold Jim Gainsay?” I asked finally, as he turned and twisted the stubby red pencil thoughtfully in his hands.</p>
			<p>“We shall watch him,” he amended. “So far he has stayed of his own free will, a thing that is in itself strange. Of course, if he should attempt to leave I should be forced to restrain him.”</p>
			<p>The dinner bell rang just then and he looked at his watch, again frowning as he noted the time.</p>
			<p>“Another thing, Miss Keate. That smell of ether interests me. Especially since to our knowledge ether was not used at all. Are you sure?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.” I spoke decidedly. “I am sure now, because of the slicker I wore yesterday afternoon.”</p>
			<p>“The slicker?” he inquired. “Yesterday afternoon?” And listened intently while I explained the whole thing.</p>
			<p>“And you had no means of identifying it?” he asked, presently.</p>
			<p>“No. Everybody wears a yellow slicker. You know how popular they have been the last year or two.”</p>
			<p>He nodded.</p>
			<p>“I wear one myself,” he said. “Well, thanks a lot, Miss Keate. You are a present help in time of trouble.” He smiled at me with that engagingly warm and youthful look.</p>
			<p>I started toward the hall, paused and turned around.</p>
			<p>“Didn’t you say there were three things you were particularly interested in right now?” I said. “What is the third one?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes.” He studied me for a moment as if to see how far the discretion with which he had complimented me might be trusted. Then he drew something from his pocket⁠—something so small that it was hidden in his hand until he held it toward me.</p>
			<p>And when I looked, I cried out and shrank back, my heart leaping to my throat. There on his outstretched palm lay a small cuff link; it was a neat square of lapis lazuli, set in engraved white gold.</p>
			<p>“I see that you recognize it?”</p>
			<p>Speechlessly, I made a motion of assent.</p>
			<p>“You need not tell me that it is Miss Day’s. I already know that. One or two of the nurses recognized it as I left it casually on the table in the general office. Oh, I watched it carefully⁠—I suppose they thought she had lost it. They did not know where it was found.”</p>
			<p>“Where it was found⁠—” I repeated, huskily, my voice losing itself somewhere in my throat.</p>
			<p>“It was found⁠—in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Letheny’s pocket.” He spoke very deliberately, his clear, gray eyes searching mine. Then he turned. “Good-night, Miss Keate,” he said courteously and was gone.</p>
			<p>As for me, I stood there quite still, staring at the gathering darkness outside the window, and at the slow rivulets of moisture trickling down the glass. Finally I aroused myself, straightened my cap, and moved toward the door. I was late for dinner, of course, and remember that someone was complaining about the steak being burned. It might have been ashes so far as I was concerned. Once I stole a look at Maida, across from me and down the table a few places. She was very white and tired-looking and it seemed to me that she avoided my eyes. I felt rather sick as I noted that, though it was a chilly day, she was wearing a uniform with short sleeves that had no need of cuff links.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
